# Log

### Monday, July 11th 2016

Yesterday I figured out how to encrypt blocks in vim, so this is my new
notebook.

-----BEGIN PGP MESSAGE-----
Version: GnuPG v1

jA0EBwMCyWPEfV70t91g0kwBD0FKY7aP9C8MP4LdvO2S6pzsQMLRmGUSk/BSpidT
e+fdWq0kf77du6B4Czzdv5l4iULwpTGAHzkLwbN2u2mOX9f+4oUXHevYluWQ
=CKnj
-----END PGP MESSAGE-----

Today I haven't done much.  I took client calls and went to the bank to deposit
the Nectar M1 check.  I think in my head that was enough.

Tomorrow I'm hoping to code outside and do some writing about that.

Not a productive day.

### Tuesday, July 12th 2016

Already well into July.  Having trouble / feeling unwilling to work on Montage
client work.  The 'developer experience' on that project is not as good.
Hopefully I can get three hours in and move things along.  I really want to do
32 hours this week to get ready for next week.

Our goal isn't to bill lots of hours, it's to do really amazing stuff, stuff I
can tell my kids about.  Doing business well is interesting as a timeless,
beautiful thing.

Have contract from iHM.  Today was better, productivity-wise, tomorrow I need to

### Wednesday, July 13th 2016

Logged about four billable hours, messing with CSS for Artdrop and building
email functionality for Nectar.  Signed/submitted iHM contract and read more
about contract negotiation.  Bought plane ticket to defcon.  Had dinner with
Max/Zachary and discussed longer term plans which sort of wore me out, putting
those things into spoken word, and makes me want to focus on work and personal
life.

Max's point about wanting things to sort of run themselves / minimizing stress
is a very good one.  Being busy for the sake of 'being busy businessperson' is
sort of silly.

-----BEGIN PGP MESSAGE-----
Version: GnuPG v1

jA0EBwMCR9OWJp4g6aVg0sABAaO9lxurdbZj1e4VyiHu4yiooQyMIQ9NgplSRY4Q
/OhbyrihutV4DtHd4xZ2bAryORRls54jHsr88gbWF38HNrm4ueIbvFUON1/sjEBn
cc1YBebdeUDl+BjU3QuWa3ppfBCUMQDfvYprdPwIvAQOxRkXXe+BCNP1yuIRkAws
EpwtYbB3xqPy5G6pGyPnVVGFbhee8lHyMtGg73z5BKiYVafHUpGt9H5usNsts4v9
9IxnJkfwmfnyFuIVy6C2CmQUaQ==
=0NUv
-----END PGP MESSAGE-----

### Thursday, July 14th 2016

Need to make presentation for the ReactCamp thing.  Wish the event was better
organized, seems fishy.  Not exactly sure what should be prioritized today in
terms of client work.

### Monday, July 18th 2016

First day at iHM went well.  Feel satisfied with their technical level and the
coherence of the team.  Both Zachary and I seem a bit ill-adjusted to working in
an office for eight hours straight: found myself 'looking at the clock',
figuratively.

Looking forward to lunch meeting w/ other consultancies, very exciting and
useful.  I draw a lot of energy from people like that.

Bought two nice shirts from opening ceremony.  At bar now (not a bar I like very
much), hopefully will get some work done on Montage.

### Wednesday, July 20th 2016

Met with Screen yesterday.  Very cool to meet a symmetric group of young people
from Taiwan/China who are scheming and dreaming while staying aware of beauty.
Enjoying my new clothing.  Getting well into the feel for the iHM work, still
happy with the team we are working with.  Signing lease for new office today: it
is extremely charming, I think it potentially has the 'quality without a name',
at least from the outside.  Today I will see inside.

Somewhat tired: last night worked on Montage.  Some bug that is based on a shaky
third party service.  Also I am making $40 less an hour on that project.
Hopefully Max will be able to take over the work there soon, it's a codebase he
knows.

### Thursday, July 21st 2016

Last day of first week at iHM.  Moving into new office tomorrow.  Last night
went to a 'super meetup' that included Code Drink Talk Bushwick.  I met Michael
there, he recognized Computer Lab from my name tag.  I really enjoyed talking to
him, he told me a lot of interesting things in an engaging way.  He is 'on
leave' from Thoughtworks.  He is the best example I've met of a developer
working in 'civic engagement'.

### Monday, July 25th 2016

Sort of inefficient day at iHR.  Had dinner with Zachary and Rob, talked about
money, and felt silly and cardboard-like doing so.  Had a nice lunch with
Zachary.  Got paid for Artdrop.  Feel guilty about Montage...should just make
some time, push some commits, that will hold things over until Max comes back.
Dealings with Vice on an iOS app of theirs, ... , seems unprofessional on their
end.  Getting anything done seems to require a lot of professionalism.  I think
I'm focusing too much on client work.  Need to spend more time planning, writing
or doing open source.

### Tuesday, July 26th 2016

Another pretty inefficient day at iHR.  Had to make more changes to past work
based on specs that weren't communicated before build, even after asking.  The
good thing is that it is good practice for working with forks: that requires
another sort of flow that should become habit soon, which will help with my
goals of getting into open source.  Learning the whole Jira/Agile flow is a
whole other thing in itself that is also valuable.  So, the cracks in the
process are starting to show but at least I am learning them.

Feel the need to check back into earlier goals and stuff I feel is important.
Month one of Q3 is nearing a close and there's been decent progress, but I
haven't necessarily been focused on making the goals happen.  And then I also
have (a very short) list of goals outside of the goals for the company.
Basically: writing.   I just looked at the analytics for college memoir:
basically zero except for spikes of referral spam.  Sad!  But okay.

I think the level that will feel good is finding a way to do iHM, goals, AND
other client work.  In that order.  Obviously I want to do other client work for
money and to make them happy, and I will use that motivation to motivate myself
to do the goals.

### Friday, August 5th 2016

At defcon.  Excellent.

New words: columnist, comfort zone, cool, facist, publicize.

The definition of privacy is the weakest link in discussions about privacy.

Privacy is a cognitive artifact.

Boundaries

There is no intrinsic right to privacy, intellectual property.

Privacy advocates are fighting a losing rear-guard action against reality.

Determined by the level of abstraction at which you can see.

You are known better than you know yourself.  Because you don't see yourself at
that level of abstraction.

### Sunday, August 21st 2016

It's been a difficult few weeks, but I think things should be better.

I got bedbugs and was seeing things in a very narrow way and felt sort of
trapped, mostly due to not having enough of a personal life.  This will
obviously lead to annoyances.

Rob has been doing an excellent job on the Nectar backend work, would be in huge
trouble if it were not for him.  Over the last two weeks I stopped learning very
much as I focused on getting iHM stuff done, now I think I am reading about
React again.  The Nectar codebase is working great, the composability of the
work done for the previous milestone is amazing.

Feel the need to be more professional, not in a superficial sense, but in a
deeper sense: not making half-baked promises, always trying to make a good deal,
always representing the business well.

Bedbugs and sickness was also not helpful, obviously.  Should go to the dentist
and find a new sports routine.

### Monday, August 22nd 2016

Wrist is definitely in pain.  Not really sure what I can do there.  The only
obvious solution is to stop using the computer.  Maybe I can do that at iHM on
Wednesday.  Need to be responsible there.

Now would be a good time to spend more time reading SICP, or writing by hand.

### Friday, August 26th 2016

Things going better.  Should have Nectar under control by the end of the day.
iHM maybe going better.  Body feels better.

### Friday, September 2nd 2016

Things are much better.  SingleSprout project went very well overall and was
done in time.  Having more fun at iHM.  Good projects incoming.  Everybody seems
engaged and excited.  Checks in the mail.

Oh, and finally figured out a good way to yank in tmux.

### Tuesday, September 13th 2016

I enjoyed reading Stephen Arnott's 'NEET Diary' last night.  This sentence was
my favorite: "The whole idea is that being a NEET is about setting your range of
expectations and basically defining the scope of your world."  Starting a
company, at least the way we've been doing it, feels a lot like being a NEET.  I
think I've experienced many of the same anxieties and pleasures.  There's
something very creative and freeing about it, but also a sense that you are
doing something *wrong*.  'Being a founder' is more socially acceptable way of
being a NEET.  I remember getting lunch with Dan (who actually is a NEET) and
talking with him about how weird it feels to not be either an employer/owner or
employee: the assumption that a person is either an employer or an employee is
baked into all of the accounting software we use, etc.  If one transitions to
being an owner/employer I guess the kinship with NEETs probably evaporates
because then the role is clear again.  But we are not there yet, and may never
get there.  For better or worse.   For better or worse.  My current verbal tic
is 'for better or worse'.

Finally got UltiSnips working.  It was some nonsense.  Unsure of what I should
be working on right now exactly.

### Wednesday, September 14th 2016

I ran into Dina from college on the subway, she's moving to New York to work at
Triple Canopy.  I was on my way to go paint my room in 274 Quincy.  Luckily I
talked on the phone with Mommy before painting and she told me that it would be
bad to use semi-gloss for the walls (I had already bought a bunch of
semi-gloss).

Excellent excellent day at iHM.  Big refactor done by other team member that I
really like and general good atmosphere on the team.  I think things will be
okay.  Will do some writing tonight and I am itching to do some OSS work work
soon.

### Thursday, September 15th 2016

Halfway through September.  It seems like nothing much is coming of my 'three
big plays', though something could come of those actions in the future.  I
definitely feel the urge to bring in some new business.  Talked with Katherine,
which reminded me that Lab has never really 'designed' anything visually,
besides our own site.  It would be great to actually do branding/feel for
someone.  I will find a business opportunity that will let us work with
Katherine or another designer so that we can do a project where we originate the
look and feel as well.  I don't think anyone currently 'in' Computer Lab has the
ability to do that, which is a good reason to grow or find partnerships.  Doing
Tired today, stayed up to about 1:30 talking with Zoe, which is no good for my
wrists.  After staying late at iHM.  Hopefully will finish the painting today.
Hopefully Rob is happy, can't believe the deal with Screen is still not yet
signed.  Annoying.

### Monday, September 19th 2016

The 5k was fun and I feel 'more like myself' after.  In the new iHR office which
has a north view instead of a south view.  Very rainy and grey.  Good weekend,
tired now though.  I hope FC goes well for Rob.

### Tuesday, September 20th 2016

Fell asleep without food after work yesterday, so I didn't do the things I
wanted to: writing, painting, etc.  Also I didn't have any money in my account.
Now I have $7k.  Hopefully this is the last time I 'forget to pay myself'.

Today at iHM I don't have any tickets to work on.  Hopefully I will use the time
well.

Let's see, what else.  Need to write some about my personal life but I can't get
the gpg trick working on OSX.

Looking forward to doing the branding work, and also doing branding work for
clients.  That will be satisfying and cool.  We do need to do some deep, hard
work to define our business plan  We do need to do some deep, hard work to
define our business plan.  It's very ad hoc at this point.  I hope
Max/Zachary/Rob can help push things here.  I believe in the possibility of
having a very good plan of what I want to build and then carrying it out.  We've
been doing that so far, and I think it can continue, but with greater scope.
The questions are: what specifically do you want?  What do you want to see in
the world?  What does the world

What now?

### Monday, September 26th 2016

This weekend was fine.  On Friday, after working out a deal for the branding
with Hello Velocity, I went to a noise show at NYU.  Rob's girlfriend Alyssa was
performing as part of a noise ensemble.  On Saturday I met with Mommy and her
friend, we went to lunch, visited the Computer Lab office, and then went to the
9/11 Memorial (my first time there).  The most notable aspect of the memorial
for me was how you wouldn't see to the bottom of the pits that recycled the
water in the reflecting pools, due the geometry of the pools.  Then I went to
Snowden and a party with the iHM ops people, with Theo.  The two experiences
blended together nicely.  Sunday I didn't do much, the only distinct thing was
going to an art opening based on Christopher Alexander.  Feel pretty tired and
uninterested in coding right now.  I need to finish the writeup for the NYC Wifi
Link Kiosk hack.  Figuring that out was the most fun aspect of the weekend
honestly.  Hacking is deeply fun.  This morning I felt a strong desire to write
well.

Got a bit too much sleep last night.  I fell asleep at 10pm, woke up, talked with
a woman from Tinder on the phone from 2am - 3am (she had a nice voice), watched
a YCombinator Elon Musk interview, went back to sleep.  Talking on the phone was
pretty nice.  The net is vast and infinite.

### Tuesday, September 27th 2016

Presidential debate last night.  Went to my new place after, where there were
two packages full of bedding.  I got the mattress pad around two corners of the
bed, and fell asleep on top of it.  Woke up at 7AM.  Haven't had an easy time
focusing / feeling motivated to code this week.  I think it's partly just
because the tickets are pretty boring, and I'm in more of a design / business
mood.  Hopefully the work next sprint will be more engaging.  Anyways, money is
good.

It turns out that Dina's boyfriend seems to be into literature, that's cool.
They could both become friends.

I do need to work a bit harder.

### Wednesday, September 28th 2016

Fuck, the build is broken.  Feel uninterested.  Got a haircut and feel better
now.  Talking about art.  I'm going to be working on the failed minimalism
piece and the quick review for Celine this week.  Might be moving to new home
this weekend, that'd be nice.  I hope the check comes, I want to go clothes
shopping and work on my image.

Just doing the daily TODO list is big.  I do feel more adult and confident
lately, even though I've been feeling slow.  This morning I was thinking about
the need, at this age, to define oneself relatively to 'other big things', the
world.  I think I'm imagining something like that Doug Engelbart described
himself doing when he was married and twenty-five, fresh from the army: looking
at the problems that the world is facing, and figuring out how they could be
solved.  At twenty-four I think I have a decent idea of my abilities,
weaknesses, risk tolerence, degree of specialness, etc.  School, relationships,
and some crisis have taught me enough about myself that I can see myself
accurately in relation to different problems and opportunities in the world.

I imagine this process can be accomplished pretty quickly.  It's really a matter
of just reading, visiting, and consulting experts.  I can do it with Zachary,
Max, Rob, and others, it doesn't have to be a lonely thing.  From a 'networked
individualistic' perspective, what THEY choose to do has a large effect on what
it makes sense for me to do.  Programming, writing and business are ultimately
pretty general skills.  I think one big thing I can't neglect is my concern for
beauty.

### Thursday, September 29th 2016

'Moved' into 274 Quincy last night, commmuted from there this morning.

### Sunday, October 2nd 2016

Very quiet weekend, I only went out Friday night.  I worked pretty hard to clean
up the new place, and started working on the Lab business plan.  The combination
of the forward-thinking research and the nesting behavior, on these grey
relatively stress-free days, led to a very muted hypomania.  Is it really
hypomania at all if it's totally sustainable and healthy?  There's something a
little sinister about it, but sinister in a seductive, adult way.  I did tweet a
fair amount.  I feel a little bit ashamed.

I think I have a plan for iHM contract renewal.  Need to calmly execute it, it's
a perfectly good plan.  I really do feel much calmer.  It's another one of those
times where I feel much less fucked and like I'll very soon have a loving
girlfriend and all of the good things in the world.

### Monday, October 3rd 2016

Stressors this morning.  Talking with Garret this afternoon, should enact iHM
plan, branding stuff this evening.  My abs feel almost non-existent and I think
I have a paunch.

### Tuesday, October 4th 2016

I'm still not feeling great despite the exciting talk with Garrett, and
reasonably good branding meeting last night.  Feel low-key anxious and body
feels are bad.  I also need to write the Peter Burr thing.

### Wednesday, October 5th 2016

I'm imagining things going like this:

October: iHeart, branding, Screen, Flight Club
November: iHeart, ramp up PHCS, branding, Flight Club, Buffalo
December: wind down iHeart, PHCS, Taipei, planning, design-intensive projects
January: Taiwan,

### Thursday, October 6th

Absolutely need to do something about my body.  I'm thinking Mary is right, I
should join Equinox.  Though I do want to be careful about getting sort of
tranced by bougie stuff.  It wears out pretty quickly.

I think I'm going to join the YMCA in Bed-Stuy.  It's like a block away from
home.  It really is time to be that person in your head.

### Thursday, October 13th

Not a super great week despite some good outcomes.  Feel really tired right now.

### Wednesday, October 18th

Work stuff / writing stuff seems good but feel sort of depressed and also
frustrated for obvious reasons.  Read something I wrote in the spring of 2014,
it really bothers me.  I'm not sure it bothers me because it is bad writing, or
because it is a really clear depiction of the way I used to be.

I'm getting really close to a new type of happiness, I think.  Understanding the
margins of safety is important, a key to control.  Having control of the time I
waste...I've never quite done that.  I've gained control over other apsects of
time, and I definitely don't waste time as pathologically as I did once.  But
wasting time is a wonderful thing.  It's really beautiful and a lot of art is
about time being wasted.  All time is wasted, no time is wasted, obviously.  The
difference is...time that is spent trying to be something else, and time that is
spent just being who I am.

Need to figure out what's up with Yami Ichi and come up with Q4 goals.  Pretty
excited for PHCS work.  More confused than ever about how to relate to people
romantically.

### Thursday, October 20th

I think I've become uncomfortable with certain parts of myself.  I
intentionally try to forget them, using the classic therapist-endorsed
self-talk: "this thought isn't helpful", etc.  But this sort of thinking makes
me distant from myself, makes me feel boring.

Anyways...

Goals.  Need to finish the Peter Burr piece, and work on Yami Ichi.

### Saturday, November 12th

Trump will be president. I have been thinking about this almost constantly for the
past four days; it seems like most other people I know are doing the same.

I've been writing a lot of tweets and deleting them and thinking that the things
I have tweeted are bad. Probably as some sort of coping mechanism for being
caught so off guard, I am thinking that there's a need to 'revise and re-embrace
liberalism', which I guess is a sort of contrarian view among my peers. I also
think there's a need to shitpost more about my views: it's easy to dismiss the
value of social media / forum posting, but clearly it probably had some impact.

Going through the items on Trump's platform, and things he's said, it's very
hard to agree with people taking the Alice Maz line of 'this is good because
it finally helps the rural poor', or that everything is a consequence of liberal
smugness and insularity. Obviously huge mistakes were made by the DNC, but now
the DNC is at risk of being torn apart like we thought the RNC would be torn
apart a few months ago when Trump won. It seems like many of the big
beneficiaries of this will be wealthy business owners and corporations, assuming
the tax cuts go through. It will be a short-sighted opportunity for classic
Republicans to cash out, under the guise of helping American workers. It will
be important to follow the relative success of tax reductions and the
dissolution of international trade deals.  I need to read about that.

What about Bernie Sanders...

There are a lot of really bad worst case scenarios that I think are very real.
It seems like a lot of the really bad violent leaders of history were
characterized by their incompetence. Covering up incompetence and failure
requires spectacle and shock. We have danger of getting the worst of the Bush
policies plus a deeply fucked new layer.

The whole Balajis angle...the Pepi leftist angle...they're so rhetorically
compelling, and unfortunately you don't have much but your instinct telling you
that they're wrong.  Maybe you should attempt to see if they're right.

In other news, relationship with family seems better, and Computer Lab is okay.

### Monday, November 14th

Regaining focus on work. Stressed about iHM, same situation as before.
Annoying, need to have talk about it. Should write a big check to myself today.
Feel moderately dysphoric. Need to answer some of the questions I asked in my
facebook post.

### Tuesday, November 15th

The tickets are fucked up. It's stressing me out. I could try 'not caring' by
that it not something that I'm good at. I could try caring more about
something else... other priorities. Ultimately I need to toughen up in this
regard, but not get petulant and emotional. Try to fight battles that can be
won. Present my case elegantly.

### Wednesday, November 16th

It all went pretty well. It is sort of a waste of my time in some sense, but I
think we all now see the end of the tunnel.

I still feel some stress about PHCS work. And we need to finish the branding
work.

### Sunday, November 20th

Last night was pretty awful. The playbook I've been using since 2012ish seems to
have a single big flaw. I'm looking forward to going back to Buffalo on Tuesday.

### Wednesay, November 23rd

I'm at home in Buffalo. Pleasant, about to pick my sister and her boyfriend up
from the airport. FC turned out to be even more of a shitshow. But I'm hoping
it's almost over. PHCS is going well, pretty interested in data engineering
overall, it seems like an area where there's some real opportunity.

Feel good about the clothes that Alina helped me pick out. I think that now it's
probably important to *actually* have a number of different ways of presenting
myself. It's a product of networked individualism. There are four individuals I
can think of now: 1) artist/writer, 2) american guy ('grey man'), 3) millennial
CEO, 4) programmer. I think I need to be able to look, act, and think like a
good example of these four types to accomplish what I want. This feels like a
somewhat childish way of thinking, but there's a necessity and I have the
resources.

### Thursday, November 24th

Nice Thanksgiving. Made some progress on Slack invite thing. That will be nice.
Not sure how to make it clear for the user.

Want to do some writing.

### Saturday, November 26th

Went to the Albright Knox gallery with family to see the Picasso exhibit. It was
pretty chilling. That night I went with Rob to drive around South Buffalo, to
see the SolarCity plant. We went to the casino. I feel pretty motivated.

As I said before, I think I will try to make this a notebook dedicated to
Computer Lab stuff, and have a separate person notebook. Using the network of
things around me as a way to avoid thinking about my own happiness is an
anti-pattern.

### Sunday, November 27th

I feel a lot of opportunity.

Computer Lab currently does the following things:

1. Application Development: we can do full stack development. Examples: iHeart,
   Nectar, Screen.

2. Data Engineering: probably an undervalued field. Examples: Solar/PHCS.

3. Branding: the only thing we've really branded is ourselves. (Maybe this means
   that we should favor this type of project.)

Other areas that we COULD do but don't currently do:

4. Machine Learning / Artificial Intelligence: A natural extension of 2.

5. Virtual/Augmented Reality: We are situated well for this network-wise.

6. i18n: My China trip and Screen could set us up for it.

7. Blockchain. Doesn't seem super promising.

You could (and perhaps probably should?) apply a sort of 'cross-section' to all
these items. Example: we could do data engineering FOR manufacturing companies. We could do
i18n FOR art institutions.  Etc.

This cross sectional approach seems pretty smart. This also lets us select the
type of working arrangement we want.

Based on the past year, I think the working arrangement we want is:

1. Money. Big chunks of it.

2. No long-term onsites.

3. Owning the process.

4. Driving real business value for sophisticated clients.

5. Writing quality software, growing as programmers.

6. Being able to 'stop'. (Breaks in the tracks.)

7. Being weird.

That's all I can think of at the moment. There are tensions between these items,
for example, between 3 and 4.

Interesting, I don't think we have any answer for the cross-section.

I think for the cross-section, we need some sort of unique knowledge. What do we
know that other people don't?

I think we already have a good story on the 'supply side'. Computer Lab is
embedded in this new Internet estate or institution or establishment. I think
the key ideas are all explained in the 'Weird Facebook' piece. The new
establishment is very valuable and also quite nascent.

Could we SELL into that institution/estate as well? The first example of that is
Screen.

To explore what I'm talking about in more detail: I think what Computer Lab
knows that other companies don't is that there's a whole new establishment
arising from intersectional communities on Twitter, Facebook, Slack, LA, New
York, etc. I think we're encountering it early because it's happening first in
the arts.

I think that the new establishment and old establishment will coexist. They both
offer things to each other. For example, the old establishment offers capital,
canonization, and rigorousness. The new establishment offers relevance,
irreverence, and openness.

There's a lot of opportunity to do 'arbitrage' between the old and new
establishments. I think iHeart is a pretty good example of this. iHeart wouldn't
be able to assemble a team like Computer Lab, which was created out of new
establishment connections.

It'd be interesting to look for examples of other times where there were
multiple establishments.

Funny moment was when I was watching 'The Secret Life of Pets' and almost teared
up when the little dog was overhwhelmed and inspired by the New York skyline.

Feeling anxious, telling myself that there is no need to feel anxious at this
exact moment.

### Monday, December 5th 2016

Slogging along at iHeart. Interesting outcomes from the talks we've had with
potential clients. Rob will likely be moving to Pittsburgh. I'm somewhat worried
about that, but hopefully it will work out well.

### Tuesday, December 6th 2016

Had to sleep at the office last night because I didn't have a key to lock it up.
Felt anxious, panicky. I think I'm disappointed in myself. I spent so much time
thinking about my appearance. The business plan is half-assed, accounts
recievables is a mess, I haven't built anything good open source or written
anything.

### Sunday, December 18th 2016

Successfully finished iHR project with good result. Main Computer Lab project
now is writing blog posts / research, while tapping along client work.

Also interested in potentially doing projects with:
- Toby
- Chris Novello
- Manny
- Mary
- Rob
- Francis Tseng / someone he knows

### Monday, December 26th 2016

Holidays were nice. Taking my parents on tour of Battery Park, TriBeCa and Soho
really underscored the amount of success we've had this year. Enjoyed reading
'Good To Great' on Christmas day. Most interesting was the 'Hedgehog Concept'
section: finding the intersection of what you can be the best at, what you love,
and what can be your economic engine.

Right now, for Computer Lab:

What We Can Be the Best At:
- online relationships and communities
- personal/group branding via shitposting
- aesthetics/trend forecasting and invention
- executing quixotic projects

What We Love:
- online relationships and communities
- aesthetics/trend forecasting and invention
- writing code, building software
- executing quixotic projects
- shitposting

What Drives Our Economic Engine:
- ReactJS / JavaScript
- informal personal network based on project referrals
- executing projects given constraints
- MVPs
- enterprise / corporate projects

Computer Lab can probably survive and even thrive without these three centers
aligned. But to be really happy, profitable, and powerful, it seems necessary to
align all three. It seems easiest to modify our economic engine, but all three
are malleable, especially given our youth, and the companies youth. If we want
to be the best at building software, we could go to school, woodshed (learn on
our own), or find new people. All three centers can move.

That said, it seems easier to move our economic engine. I think with better
alignment, things will really take off.

I think over the last year, we've proven that we can make the necessary
pragmatic decisions to keep the business alive, so I'm not very worried about
getting really sidetracked.

Another item from that book: discipline. The book believes that internal
discipline can prevent the need for bureaucracy and useless procedure. I think
we can think more about what our 'discipline' is. I think some key areas:
billing, goal-setting (for example our Q4 goals didn't go so well), and software
quality.

I think personally, I need to take my foot off the gas. Instead of pushing
things along I will learn from Max and try to meet new people, learn and explore
new ideas.

"Utility established as meaning generates meaninglessness"

"This idea is basically the same sentiment as "it is easier to create the future
than to predict it." The key to action is not the fact of choosing a future, but
choosing one that would be improbably without human agency in the loop. Entropy
makes glasses break but cannot make them. Humans can."

The density of the network as the amount of potential meaning?

  Hipster-craftsman version of Maker movement as ineffective reaction against the
  victory of Laboring Man rather than something new

  Lifestyle design and popularity of stoicism as retreat from action and trade as
  a weak substitute

  Weak action potential of wealth due to ideals of "private" and "property" that
  confuse sovereignty for freedom ("fuck you money")

- Rao on Hannah Arednt

Fabricating the world in which the action happens is actually an active means of
shaping the action.

"Action potential"

"Recognize that publics can be created by action, they don't need to exist a
priori"

### Thursday, December 29th 2016

Getting back into it with Solar stuff. A little slow, I'm out of the practice of
actually making decision and writing code from scratch. Also sort of generally
distracted. Good to get the distracted/slow work out of the way. Back hurts.
Will do yoga at home.

Tomorrow meeting Julian with Max. Read some stuff about Agile yesterday; I think
our relationship to Agile could be just as defining as our technology choice.
It's an opportunity: a lot of the established consultancies have dug themselves
deeply into Agile.

Everyone seems to be on fruitful indpendent intellectual journeys during this
downtime.

### Wednesday, January 4th 2017

Reasons Computer Lab may be in a crisis:

- inability to follow through on quarterly goals, both trivial and critical
- lack of software focus area / long term plan of any kind
- disagreement re: costs
- consistently late payment of invoices including possible non-payment
- accepting almost 100% of inbound work, including incoherent work
- branding / website project stalled
- twitter account (somewhat) stalled
- mismangement of client projects resulting in 'firefighting'/ 'taking one for the team'

Reasons Computer Lab is literally fine:

- lots of inbound work, mostly referrals for successful projects
- ReactJS as a sort of focus
- generalist personality of founders favors lack of plan/focus
- good relationships w/ other consultancies, contractors
- working with / meeting lots of other good engineers
- successfully hosted event, yami ichi
- blog posts, open source going well
- 'twitter networking' is working, resulting in clients / subcontractors
- successful finish of 6-month iHeart project and other smaller projects
- market-rate pay for partners, high overall income
- continuing dialog / learning about business models, exploration
- labcoin / accounting systems seem to work
- logo design successful
- successfully created operating agreement
- high activity / lots of good people in slack

### Friday, January 13th 2017

Bad day and time for lab, due to our accounts receivable issue.
This all seems like part of the metamorphic process of becoming a 'real
business'. We will do a good job of it, and it'll help define us.

I'm thinking about Lab as: "We build MVPs for companies in the healthcare industry."

It works really well for everything except for the culture thing. But, it's also
possible that the Healthcare industry needs more people who think like us.

### Sunday, January 15th 2017

I feel very awake. I will ensure bad outcomes don't occur for Computer Lab.
There's a pretty clear solution for the accounting issues. I'm also glad to have
figured out the estimated taxes that I need to pay quarterly. Being proactive
about these things will let us make the correct strategic decisions.

We'll do the right projects, on the right terms. We'll get the information we
need to be able to tell which projects are good, which terms are good.

### Monday, January 16th 2017

Good day. Lab was bustling. Today is the first day we've had an equal ratio of
partners to contractors: three partners, three contractors. Dealt with some
difficult systems and now I have some time to write.

### Monday, August 14th 2017

Family names are visible in the world. They're an obvious form of information
that people seem to willfully ignore. I feel fragile.

### Monday, August 21st 2017

"It is as their proud product that Podhoretz presents himself, and he obviously
hoped to retain the approval of these people, as he had done so often in the
past, by daring to write something they were afraid to write. He believed that
they would admire his courage, recognize the justice of his account, forgive any
indiscretions he may have committed, and, freed at last from a stifling
hypocrisy, embrace him and the book. Many writers have tried this kind of thing.
It never works."


"...there is an implicitly observed and tacitly enforced distinction between what
counts as success and what counts as selling out. (In no profession does owning
an apartment on West End Avenue constitute selling out.) There is a sociology of
intellectual life. Podhoretz’s mistake was to overgeneralize from his own
experience."

### Tuesday, August 29th 2017

Experiencing a nice income shock, despite the fact that my thoughts about lab
are going through a reorganization. Hopefully I can put in the time necessary
to pitch these pieces.  I am interested in 'get rich quick' schemes. Because
you really can get rich quick.

### Friday, September 1st 2017

Signed lease for another year in my current apartment at $570/month. The
interest in "get rich quick" schemes is and was stupid. Reading, learning and
writing is a much better thing to obsess about. Luckily in my time with Emily I
have been reading a lot more. We were talking about how to externally impose
discipline. How could I do that?

### Wednesday, September 6th 2017

Typing from my new GPD Pocket computer. I think this is the beginning of really
not using the paper notebook anymore. 

### Thursday, September 7th 2017

The keyboard on the GPD has weird sensitivity issues, but hopefully I can figure
it out or replace the keyboard. Should be fine.

Flying to Canada today with Emily. I hope we have a good time, and I actually
pitch and write these things. 

### Saturday, September 9th 2017

Had dreams about school and violence again, similar to those that I write about
in College Memoir. The pattern is always: responding to the feeling that I
didn't get the chance to do my best by petty rebellion. I'm not sure if the
underlying problem is always feeling like I didn't do my best, or the response
of petty rebellion instead of begging. Hard to say.

It's interesting how brutal and unforgiving school is. Maybe that's the
underlying problem. 

Oh yeah, I also dreamed that the screen on this computer was broken.

I should (after some research) apply to that writing program.

### Sunday, September 10th 2017

"The sophisticated testing of effective and lasting memes, for example the
birther movement, can then collect uncritical citizens like real birds in
digital cages and move the cages into desired positions."

### Saturday, September 24th 2017

I'm back in New York, with one accepted pitch. I think one thing I've realized
is that I've been using money thoughts to distract from my frustrated desire to
realize projects. It's easier to fantasize about accumulating money than taking
the risks and fatigue to get projects like the ctf and the different essays
done. It's also a way to justify compromise. Two years in, I shouldn't be
compromising so much. Future client projects should be something I'll be proud
of and should pay well.

### Wednesday, September 27th 2017

Very sad about the end of the year coming. I'm feeling more lost than when I was
really focused about Computer Lab. I'm still very focused but that's because now
it comes pretty easy to me. And that's why I've been shifting my efforts to
writing, for a new way to keep myself focused and working, a new thing to obsess
about. When I think about Emily and myself it reminds me of a pigeon couple. I
imagine us bobbing our heads, half-ignoring each other as we move about my home.
Work is the same. 

The most important thing I feel is that I'm running out of time. However there
is no plan in time towards getting what I desire, so my desires have become
sacred. I should mentioned that I just finished reading debt. I'm flying to St.
Louis for Strangeloop, I'll be in the airport overnight. Instead of an apparatus
of hopelessness I experience the economy as an apparatus of speculative
delusion. Also sort of hopeless.

TODO
1hr Gray Man DONE
Edit Story
1hr Lasor DONE
1hr DG 

### Thursday, September 28th 2017

Feeling a little better. Last night I went out in Chicago alone. It felt good to
drink but it's too bad the bars close at 2am. So I basically wasted $50 on an
uber to go get two drinks in a boring part of town.

Emily had a good point that maybe I'm feeling like this because I haven't had
enough alone time. Of course now that I'm in some difficulty again I start
writing in the notebook.

I thought more about the "Ten Years Cold Window" concept. I think that, and some
vain desires, are what I'm avoiding.

Fuck, I need to make friends at this thing too.

TODO
1hr Gray Man
1hr DG
Plan tomorrow's talks DONE

### Friday, September 29th 2017

TODO
LASOR contract DONE
1hr Gray Man

Amazing Allison Parish talk.
TIC: trusted internet connection
EINSTEIN: classified IDS

### Saturday, September 30th 2017

TODO
1hr Gray Man DONE

Dependent Types in Haskell
Regular expression type includes an Occurance Map
1. Compile-time Parsing
GHCI: interactive compiler environment for haskell
2. Indexed Types: type indics constrain values and guide computation
GDAT: Generalized Algebraic Data Types
Big Two Vanity Metrics: revenue and number of employees
3. Double-Duty Data: type data at runtime and compile time
Idris, Agda, Coq have dependent types
4. Equivalence Proofs

Industrial Fermentation: organization produces chemical
100,000 gallons of fermentation: economics
Atheoretic approach to microbial engineering (search algorithm)
Mutating a single base pair SNP (single-nucleotide polyorphism)
plasmid: circle of single-stranded dna
crossover: the protein replicating the cell's dna reads the plasmid instead of
the dna itself
Codon -> Helix: specification of experiment -> instructions for the factory

"how does it work?" "how does it stay safe" are two concerns
"If your DSL needs its own utility scripts, consider creating a library"
Just because you're using ASTs doesn't mean you need a DSL

FEMTOCODE
Particle Physics Programming

The Protection of Information in Computer System
"The operations we perform use the structure of the data to perform queries"
"the flexibility must carry through to the final analysis"

"If, despite the small chance of success, the profession of artist is so
popular, it is because it offers the prospect of a labor that is apparently free
of narrow specialization, allowing the artist, like heroes and heroines in the
movies, to endow work and life with their own meanings."
Julian Stallabrass

### Sunday, October 1st 2017 

TODO
1hr Gray Man
Castration research DONE
1hr Auth0 stuff
Artists info DONE

Wassily Kandinsky:  On the Spiritual in Art, The Blue Rider

Der Blaue Reiter lacked an artistic manifesto, but it was centered on Kandinsky
and Marc. Paul Klee was also involved.

Wassily Kandinsky, Der Blaue Reiter, 1903 The name of the movement is the title
of a painting that Kandinsky created in 1903, but it is unclear whether it is
the origin of the name of the movement, as Professor Klaus Lankheit learned that
the title of the painting had been overwritten.[1] Kandinsky wrote 20 years
later that the name is derived from Marc's enthusiasm for horses and Kandinsky's
love of riders, combined with a shared love of the colour blue. 

His work was exhibited in state-sponsored exhibit "Degenerate Art" and then
destroyed.

Nara Yoshitomo: the large fruit like faces

Shinsui Itō: came to be known as a specialist in the bijin-ga ("picture[s] of
beautiful women") genre
Hasegawa Kiyoshi: the quiet bird and the little hourglass
Joan Miro: the black lines and boubas and kikis
the bottom of the pool at the hotel where snowden stayed in hong kong sparkles
like the neck of a pigeon

Die Brucke: the bridge
Max Breckman: the catfish with the face of a cat
Henry Moore: the sims sculpture
Karl Schinkel
Jean DeBuffet: the weird masks you made in middle school

Butler Miller (drink)
a very clean and acoustically comfy dive bar

### Monday, October 2nd 2017

TODO
1hr Gray Man
Invoice
1hr Auth0
1hr LASOR
Debt Notes

Thinking about Emily.
Met Jor. Wonder what it is about her videos.

### Wednesday, October 4th 2017

TODO
1hr Gray Man DONE
1hr Auth0 DONE
1hr Lasor DONE
Swim
Clean Home
Clean Lab DONE

I am drinking too much. Need to only drink on the weekend. 
Anti-inflammatory diet will also be good for me.
We are all on an unique journey to understand our bodies.

Good day of work.

### Thursday, October 5th 2017

TODO
Swim DONE
Groceries DONE
Lab at 10:30
Respond to Vice DONE
1hr Gray Man DONE
1hr Walkbuy DONE
2hrs Auth0
1hr LASOR DONE

### Friday, October 6th 2017

TODO
Run DONE
Clean DONE
1hr Gray Man DONE
2hr Auth0
1hr LASOR DONE
Email Alex DONE

### Saturday, October 7th 2017

45min Clean DONE
Swim
Laundry

Fleur Jaeggy
spending time with frederique entails becoming accomplices, disdaining all the
others
a booy undone by his older sister's values
"The importance of succeeding in life is a noose. It's nothing but a noose."
Parents are not necessary. Few things are necessary.

### Monday, October 9th 2017

+ Swim
- 1hr Gray Man
+ 2hr LASOR
* 2hr Auth0
+ Invoice

### Tuesday, October 10th 2017

- 15min Yoga
- 1hr Gray Man
- 2hr Auth0
- 1hr LASOR
- Clean / Water

### Thursday, October 12th 2017

- 1.5hrs LASOR
- 1hr Gray Man

### Friday, October 13th 2017

Louis Theroux

### Sunday, October 15th 2017

+ 45mins Clean
- 1hr Gray Man
+ Yoga
+ Bed at 1
