# Advanced Persistent Threats in the Arts

### Introduction to Advanced Persistent Threats

The term `Advanced Persistent Threat` (APT) was developed by the US Air Force in
2006 to help analysts discuss hacking attacks on civilian organizations without
disclosing the classified identities of attackers.

(Story of APT1). https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6p7FqSav6Ho&t=59s

(
  Advanced: conversant with the tools and trends of the bleeding edge of the
  trade, allows the APT to engage with sophisticated targets, or remain anonymous
  ?

  Persistent: funded, motivated, protected from business and legal pressures.
  motivated often by patriotism or some other 'higher cause' ?

  Threat: both effective and dangerous to both civilians military. from the
  perspective of an individual: your life can get steamrolled by an APT. from the
  perspective of a government or military: a strategic threat beyond the danger of
  a business or crime organization: threat to homeland security
)

The US government and security companies have developed catalogs of APTs:
mappings of names to attack signatures, tools, and suspected national
attribution. The CIA's catalog of APTs was recently leaked, along with its
arsenal of hacking tools.

https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1H9_xaxQHpWaa4O_Son4Gx0YOIzlcBWMsdvePFX68EKU/edit

Browsing the catalog of APTs, one thing jumps out: the vast majority of the APTs
are non-western in attibution. Perhaps this is unsurprising: the term was
invented by the military to cover a type of activity that is commonly used to
attack the US and NATO. But, one does wonder, what kind of APTs originate from
NATO countries, and what kind of signatures do they have?

Ultimately, the concept of an APT is so useful because it emphasizes behavior
over attribution. Perhaps the defining feature of a cyber attack is that it
usually impossible to provably attribute it to a source, especially in an
international context. The term APT was built with this constraint in mind.

And, because of the nature of cyber and the constraining definition of APT, we
don't really know what it's like to work at an APT.

Over the past few years, a lot of light has been shed on the activities of 'The
Equation Group', alternatively known as Longhorn or Lamberts. (Lamberts is the
name given to The Equation Group by Kaspersky , the Russian antivirus and
infosec company...) Mostly as the result of fuck-ups or leaks.

The canoncial example of TEG activity is Stuxnet...

### Theory of Advanced Persistent Threats in the Arts

The character of APT1, Stuxnet and many other APTs doesn't stray far from the
framework provided by the Air Force in 2006: career hackers using a toolkit of
zerodays, phishing, and RATs to compromise and monitor the networks of
military-industiral complex organizations, generally for the purpose of
exfiltrating data.

This type of APT threat is still extremely relevant, and is often surfaced in
the media. [dnc, pharma, infra examples]

There's recently been more media discussion of a different variety of of APT
activity. In 2015, the New York Times published a profile of Russia's Internet
Research Agency, an organization whose alleged activities seem to fulfill the
criteria of an APT, even though they don't involve hacking toolkits or the
military-industiral complex. (The operations of the IRA are also complemented or
backed by the activities of APTs cataloged by the infosec community). Media and
government discussion of Internet Research Agency style attacks (paid trolls
using social media sockpuppets, groups and content to 'own' democratic processes
and institutions) has become a fixture of American public discourse. Similar
activity has been documented in Serbia
[https://labs.rs/en/mapping-and-quantifying-political-information-warfare/] and 

The 2015 "Agency" article mostly focuses on
social-media-attack-on-mass-discourse attacks, but one section details something
different: an exhibit titled "Material Evidence" that toured New York, Berlin
and other capitols. Chen became aware of "Material Evidence" when Facebook
profiles that he was observing as part of his research into the IRA RSVPed to
the event, and he realized it was the same war photography event that he'd been
seeing advertisements for on the train. The 'shady' nature of the event was
covered widely, with comments about the propagandistic nature of the shows
photographs and speculation about the source of the event's funding. Journalists
and activists have since been able to find strong links between Material
Evidence and the IRA.

I think that "Material Evidence" comes very close to meeting the criteria of an
Advanced Persistent Threat targeting the arts. Perhaps the operation of
"Material Evidence" was not quite advanced enough: it was pretty readily
detected by the art community of New York City, and forced into a series of
blundering interviews. But besides that, the exhibit and the "Journalistic
Truth" grant tied to it provide a good model of what an APT targeting the arts
might look like.

Another well-known example is the Sony Hack...more destructive and obviously
nefarious

What distinguishes an arts APT from propaganda or state-funded arts
organizations?

The most obvious is the lack of transparency for funding. The standard doctrine
of APTs, in the art world and otherwise, is the "long leash": plausible
deniability of funding and command. In "Material Evidence" and the Sony hack
attribution was elusive, even after... lack of consensus. Lack of attribution.

Motivation: not just about the money for attackers. 

Specific goals beyond simply promoting the arts of the nation.

Violation!

It's important to develop a theory and an awareness of the possibility of APTs
in the art world for two reasons: 1) it's likely that after the success of
social media APT activity, APT organizers will search for new targets and
vectors 2) the smaller size of the art world relative to the military industrial
complex means that it could potentially be compromised at a relatively low cost,
3) as a practicing artist or critic, it's possible that ones work or ideology
could be undermined by APT-type activity.

### Historical Examples of APTs in the Arts

### Contemporary Examples of APTs in the Arts

