Headline: What is Gray Man Style?

---

Gray man style is a school of thought developed by survivalists who want to
conceal their skills, weapons, and goals by blending into their surroundings.
Promoters of gray man style dismiss 'shoot-me-first' tactical gear as a form of
virtue signaling, and instead favor multi-modal dress that will help them avoid
attention until it is time to use force. Some 'gray man directives' include:
avoid having a noticeable scent, wear this messenger bag instead of a backpack;
if you're a woman: don't arch your back.

I want to look into:

- Where the term 'gray man' comes from.
- What does gray man style look like? (examples)
- How the fashion industry has adpoted gray man concepts and looks.
- What does gray man style reveal about the people who came up with it?
- Is it possible for non-male, non-white, or queer people to be a gray man?
- How activists and aid workers could use the gray man concept to be more effective.

---

SurvivialThinkTank.com defines a "gray man" as "an individual who possesses the
skills, ability and intent to blend into any situation or surrounding without
standing out, concealing his or her true skills, ability, and intent from
others." Gray man is a concept developed by survivalists who have considered the
social realities of a deteriorating society, and decided that'd rather not
broadcast their prepper identities. Promoters of gray man style dismiss overt
tactical gear as a "shoot-me-first" signal, and instead favor multi-modal dress
that will help them avoid attention until it's time to use force.

You probably know what a "bug out bag" is. The New York Times recently wrote a
piece about the state-of-the-art bug out bags available on Amazon. Many of these
include overt military features like MOLLE panels, hydration bladders, and
camoflauge.  From the perspective of the gray man, these are a very poor choice
of bag. Tactical items are likely to "trigger an onlooker's Reticular Activating
System", and make the wearer noteworthy: likely a survivalist, or at least
likely to have supplies.  The gray man would prefer to carry his weapons and
supplies in a dorky messenger bag like the Vertex EDC Satchel [8], designed to
'blend into everyday life' and accomodate rapid drawing of firearms and armor
plating. Another gray man theorist suggests using a seemingly beat-up old golf
bag to wheel around rifles and supplies. [9]

SurvivalThinkTank expands the idea of the gray man to a context-dependent
"directive" broken up into four phases. Each of the four phases corresponds to a
level of societal breakdown, from present-day small town America (Phase 0) to a
full-on "road warrior" situation (Phase 3). For SurvivalThinkTank, the key
tradeoff for the gray man is between Stealth and Firepower/Kit.

The transition from Phase 0 to Phase 3 is assumed to be inevitable, and also
assumes that as society collapses, carrying weapons and supplies will be more
necessary and more common, and thus acceptable to the gray man. But, because
chaos often emerges rapidly (SurvialThinkTank tellingly uses the example of
"racially-motivated flash mobs" [2]), gray man style is often transformable in
some way, to enable transitions between different balances of stealth and kit in
evolving situations.

The gray man concept seems to have been developed in reaction to percieved
"survivalist hate". A survival course taught by an individual known as "Selco"
who reportedly survived the Balkan war emphasizes the fact that at the beginning
of the conflict, many well-prepared people helped out their neighbors by giving
away supplies. Weeks later, most were robbed or even murdered, with the
justification that the well-prepared individuals were somehow guilty of hoping
for or catalyzing the conflict.

Selco emphasizes that being grey is a lifestyle that begins even before shit
hits the fan. He goes so far as to recommend that parents keep supplies and
weapons hidden from their children, so that the children don't discuss it with
their friends, who might then tell their parents. In general, gray man
proponents seem to believe that the attention economy would invert itself in a
SHTF scenario, and those who attract less attention would be more likely to
survive.

This emphasis of gray man as a lifestyle seems to have originated with the term
itself.

The earliest reference I could find online to the concept of the gray man is in
a blogpost on the "Western Rifle Shooters Association" website, alongside
numberous other articles about firearms, survival, and anti-government politics.
This piece, authored by someone called Habcap in a sort of Goofus and Gallant
style, presents gray man as more of an identity than a strategy. "The Young Grey
Man is dismissed as a wimp, the Older as a doddering old fool." Also, Habcap
presents gray man as something that can be practiced in a group: "[The Gray Man]
practices with his weaponry in private, or only with his fellow Grey Men, always
in a secluded location."

This all begs the obvious question: why be a survivalist anyways, if it can be
such a liability? Wouldn't it be better to deal with the fact that survival is
socially determined, and not just individually determined?

I think the answer to this question, from the position of the gray man, is that
survivalism is a political position interwined with other libertarian,
conservative, and anti-government politics. This is clear from the context of
the articles on gray man: most of the substantial early articles on the subject
are surrounded by articles about second amendment law, tea party activism, and
legal research tools. For these libertarian survivalists, being gray is in
tension with their desire to share their political beliefs, and many
comments on the Habcap article discuss their feelings of inner conflict.

Later discussions of the gray man seem to have adapted largely by preppers and
survivalists as a response to a fantasy urban survival scenario, and to promote
certain survial products or tactics. In these later articles, gray man is less
of a lifestyle ideal than a situational strategy, recycled for clickbait
purposes. For these later adopters of survivalist practices, survivalism is less
of a political position and more of a hobby. The tension that these later
adopters face is a tension between wanting to share and promote their hobby and
wanting to actually survive a SHTF scenario.

What's the difference between gray man and the practices of undercover
agents? For example, consider this tweet thread from Chelsea Manning:   

https://twitter.com/xychelsea/status/880963473437585408?lang=en

When I described the gray man concepts to my friends, most of them immediately
said something along the lines of "so this is normcore for
preppers/racists/republicans". And it's true: the abstract concept of gray man
is very similar to the concept of normcore as it was originally defined by
K-HOLE[1].  (Note that this abstract concept is quite different to how normcore
has been implemented in culture.) But normcore differs from gray man in one key
respect: the ostensible motivations behind each concept and associated practice.
K-HOLE says that normcore is "a path to a more peaceful life", through the
realization that "adaptability leads to belonging and connection". Some stated
motivations behind gray man include "staying alive", "avoiding kinetic
confrontation", and "[staving] the impending onslaught of self-appointed
have-nots". 

Normcore has a become an immediately recognizable look that makes cool people
look even cooler. I think that the same sort of process is starting to happen
with the gray man concept. Apparel companies are capturing the power of the gray
man idea and distilling it into a "look".

What's the % of clothing that is 'tactical'.

Rick Owens

Normcore in practice has come to be a way of signaling one's deep coolness. Gray
man style in practice will be a way to signal one's deep uncoolness.

Writing about the gray man concept seems to usually make the assumption that the
reader is innately capable of being a gray man. The two main body factors that are
typically discussed as factors that would make it difficult to be gray area
being unusually short or tall, or being a woman who attracts sexual attention.

"Be cognizant of any smells such as food, soap or gunpowder that someone would
relate to something they’d want. Try to think about what you do, say or wear
that may cause a connection to some kind of desire. This is especially important
for females. When SHTF, there will be very few gentlemen and those in power will
take what they want, without regard to repercussions. Be cognizant of innuendo
or movements such as arching your back or physical contact. They may put you in
a situation that you may not be able to get out of."

"Ever had a conversation with someone who you’re attracted to and have just one
movement or sentence switch you from being somewhat detached to thinking about
sex?"

o "supply runs" vs looting
Obviously, just from the name, the gray man concept is pretty fucked from a
social justice perspective.  "getting supplies" -> white man's looting

Hi-Vis Vests Gets You Into Everything For Free
Dismissed

6. The gray rescuer, the gray bloc

If someone asks you "Are you heading to a safe house, do you have someplace safe
to stay?" you can easily respond with "I am looking for [my brother.]" [6]

"Don't play the hero or the villain." [4]

---



1. http://khole.net/issues/youth-mode/

2. http://www.yahoo.com/news/wisconsin-state-fair-mob-attack-police-seek-hate-182923635.html 

3. http://www.survivalthinktank.com/2011/11/grey-man-directive.html

4. http://www.survivalsullivan.com/how-to-be-a-gray-man

5. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u8Af4-gCJ_M

6. https://www.trueprepper.com/becoming-gray-man-skill-constant-camouflage/

7. http://westernrifleshooters.blogspot.com/2007/05/next-steps-grey-man.html

8. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PVZvw0EWDPk 

9. http://www.instructables.com/id/Make-a-Grey-Man-Bug-Out-Bag/

10. http://shtfschool.com/basic-survival/blending-in-and-survivalist-hate/
