Review of Peter Thiel's Favorite Book, "The Sovereign Individual"

I'm interested in writing a review of "The Sovereign Individual", Peter Thiel's
favorite book. I haven't read the whole thing yet, but here are two choice
quotes:

"At the highest plateau of productivity, these Sovereign Individuals will
compete and interact on terms that echo the relations among the gods in Greek
myth."

"By 2025, the cybereconomy will have many millions of participants. Some of
them will be as rich as Bill Gates, worth over $10 billion each. The cyberpoor
may be those with an income of less than $200,000 a year."

The main thing I want to explore is whether this book is prophetic / at least
perceptive, or just porn for rich people.  Lovers of the book say it provides a
framework that explains and predicts the rise of cryptocurrency, the election
of Trump, and (they hope) the decay of the state. Others point out that the
book was literally given away in the nineties to promote scammy investment
products. My programmer colleagues often reference it, half-ironically.

I also want to look into resonances with David Graeber's "Debt", Hannah Arendt,
and other texts (cyclic theories of history, heroic / human economies).

Thanks,
Patrick

---
https://youtu.be/Kp7hkmSUOoY?t=18m00s
https://thebaffler.com/latest/mouthbreathing-machiavellis

Quotes

"The Sovereign Individual" predicts a future where some citizens have the power
of Greek gods while others remain 'cyberpoors'.

The piety that rationalized the saturation of society by organized religion in
the late Middle Ages served the same purpose as the "compassion" that is meant
to justify the political domination of life today. The sale of indulgences to
satisfy a desire for piety without morals parallels lavish welfare spending to
slake the pretense of compassion without charity. It was largely immaterial
whether the actual effect of received practices was to improve moral character
or save souls, just as it is largely immaterial whether a welfare program
actually improves the lives of the people to whom it is directed. "Piety," like
"compassion," was an almost superstitious invocation.

In a time when causal relationships were scarcely understood, rituals and
sacraments of the Church permeated every phase of life. ". . . A journey, a
task, a visit, were equally attended by a thousand formalities: benedictions,
ceremonies, formulas." 54 Prayers inscribed on pieces of parchment were strung
like necklaces on those suffering from fevers. Malnourished girls draped locks
of their hair in front of the image of St. Urban to prevent further hair loss.
Peasants in Navarre marched in processions behind an image of St. Peter to
solicit rain during droughts .55 People eagerly adopted these and other
"ineffective techniques to allay anxiety when effective ones were not
available."

It may not be a coincidence that the great transition at the end of the
fifteenth century occurred at a time when land rents were rising and real wages
for the peasantry were in decline. Increased population pressures had reduced
the yield from the common lands, often found surrounding rivers and streams,
upon which peasants depended to graze their livestock, and in some cases, for
fish and firewood. The whittling down of living standards placed increasingly
urgent pressures on peasants to find alternative sources of income. As a
result, "more and more of the rural population turned to small- scale
manufacturing for the market, above all in textiles, in the process known as
'putting- out' or 'proto-industrialization.' "The ceremonial burdens on time
imposed by the Church stood in the way of efforts by the more ambitious
peasants to supplement their farming income by craft work, as indeed they
inhibited any redeployment of effort in new economic directions.

The cultural programming of the late Middle Ages encouraged people to see the
world in terms of symbolic similitude rather than cause and effect. This
short-circuited reasoning. It also pointed away from a mercantile conception of
life. Thinking in terms of symbolic equivalences does not easily translate into
thinking in terms of market values. "The three estates represent the qualities
of the Virgin. The seven electors of the Empire signify the virtues; the five
towns of Artois and Hainault, which in 1477 remained faithful to the house of
Burgundy, are the five wise virgins. . . . In the same way shoes mean care and
diligence, stockings perseverance, the garter resolution, etc."65 As this
example quoted from the distinguished medieval historian Johan Huizinga
suggests, thinking was dominated by dogma, rigid symbols, and allegory that
tied together every aspect of life in terms of hierarchic subordination. Every
occupation, every part, every color, every number, ev

The technology of the Information Age makes it possible to create assets that
are outside the reach of many forms of coercion.

We wrote in The Great Reckoning that the computer is enabling us to "see" the
formerly invisible complexity inherent in a whole range of systems.

"The ugly, the fat, the old, the disabled will vie with the young and beautiful
on equal terms in utterly color-blind anonymity on the new frontiers of
cyberspace." lol

"The Information Age will be the age of upward mobility." lol

"At the highest plateau of productivity, these Sovereign Individuals will
compete and interact on terms that echo the relations among the gods in Greek
myth."

"By 2025, the cybereconomy will have many millions of participants.  Some of
them will be as rich as Bill Gates, worth over $10 billion each.  The cyberpoor
may be those with an income of less than $200,000 a year."

The challenge of setting competitive terms to attract able individuals and their
capital will be more easily undertaken in enclaves than across continents.

We believe that as the modern nation-state decomposes, latter-day barbarians
will increasingly come to exercise power behind the scenes.

Efforts to contain violence will also devolve in ways that depend more upon
efficiency than magnitude of power.

"moral anachronism"

"Instead of relating to a powerful state as citizens to be taxed, the Sovereign
Individuals of the twenty-first century will be customers of governments."

"The universe rewards us for understanding it and punishes us for not
understanding it. When we understand the universe, our plans work and we feel
good. Conversely, if we try to fly by jumping off a cliff and flapping our arms,
the universe will kill us." - JACK COHEN AND IAN STEWART

In some sense America does not live out its revolutionary promise if its people
never overthrow the American government
