# Deconstructing the Deck

## Failson Capitalists

Many businesses don't follow the "laws" of efficient allocation of capital.

Many businesses never make a profit, but still make their owners wealthy, employ
many people, and shape the world we live in.

Some of these businesses are:

- "practice" businesses: businesses where the key outcome is knowledge /
  connections, training for starting profitable businesses or taking executive
  positions at established businesses

- wealth transfer businesses: either nepotistic (I'll invest in your son's
  project if you invest in my daughter's), opportunistic (raising money from a
  naive public excited about a new idea or technology), or political

- vanity businesses: businesses that convert capital acquired from a career or
  inheritance into social capital

- impact businesses: mission-oriented organizations that could be structured as
  non-profits, but opt for a more financialized / incentivized structure

Very few businesses admit to being practice businesses, vanity projects, or
wealth transfers: doing so would undermine the organization's ability to compete
for talent and capital. Many founders and key employees don't fully realize the
true purpose and fate of their business. Practice / vanity / transfer / impact
businesses interact freely with sustainable or extractive profit-driven
organizations, often contributing to their bottom lines via B2B sales.

If you work for one of these businesses, you may feel a sense of cognitive
dissonance. You may feel that capitalism, which is supposed to be ruthlessly
exploitative and utilitiarian, has failed to properly exploit your labor, doubly
wasting your time. You get paid, but you generative little to no value, or simply
faciliate a wealth transfer.

## Securing the Bag

"So much money out there." -- 

How big do you want the bag to be?

You can spend the bag on whatever you want, as long as it's related to your
business. You can pay yourself a salary. You can hire your friends. You can buy
ads. You can buy yourself flights to meetings in different cities. You can buy
real estate, art and other assets.

How big do you want the bag to be?

Let's start with $500,000.

We want to raise a seed round of $500,000. To do that, we need to create a
corporation, which costs $500. Then, we need to find investors, who will want to
know the valuation of our company.

How much is our company worth at the time of the seed round?

Easy: in a seed round, normally 15% of the company is sold. So we simply
multiply 500,000 * 100/15 = $3,333,333. Once we raise $500,000, the company will
have a post-money valuation of $3.3 million. The fact that our investors were
willing to invest $500,000 for 15% of the company is proof of this, right?

Here's the key step: we need to convince our investors we have an idea or asset
that we can turn into a company worth (way more) than $3.3 million. That's the
trick. The idea better be pretty bombastic, or similar to things that have
worked in the past. And we better get some celebrity advisors on board as
advisors (we'll give them a bit of equity for free).

These constraints explain a lot about the nature of the nature of the projects
that do get funded. They have to fit into this equation and template. The
template of the pitch deck.

Now that we've secured $500,000, as "founders", do we focus on generating a profit?

No. It's time pay ourselves a decent salary and start raising our series A.
Hopefully we've hired a hard-working "true believer" hungry to advance their
career, who's burning the days to develop a viable product.

We spend some money on advertising to generate some metrics, and add a few
slides to our pitch deck with charts these metrics going up and to the right.

How big do we want this bag to be? How about $1,000,000.

The future is constantly deferred, until the bag is sold to some other company
or sold to the public in an IPO.


