# Pattern Recognition

A small boy's black Fruit Of The Loom T-shirt, thoroughly shrunken, a thin gray
V-necked pullover purchased by the half-dozen from a supplier to New England
prep schools, and a new and oversized pair of black 501's, every trademark
carefully removed. Even the buttons of these have been ground flat, featureless, by a
puzzled Korean locksmith, in the Village, a week ago.

...and the chat room she finds not so comforting. It's strange even with
friends, like sitting in a pitch-dark cellar conversing with people at a
distance of about fifteen feet.

Still doing heels, she checks her watch, a Korean clone of an old-school Casio
G-Shock, its plastic case sanded free of logos with a scrap of Japanese
micro-abrasive. She is due in Blue Ant's Soho offices in fifty minutes.

What people take for relentlessm minimalism is a side effect of too much
exposure to the reactor-cores of fashion.

Cayce herself has been tracking the street-level emergence of what she thinks of
as "urban survival" footwear, and though this is so far at the level of consumer
re-purposing, she is confident that commodification will soon follow
identificaiton.

(talking about various novel drugs and creams as a way of talking about their
mental health / wellbeing)

the mystery of the footage itself often feels closer to the core of her life
than Bigend, Blue Ant, Doreta even her career.

Post-9/11 Cyberpunk

She knows too much about the processes responsible for the way product is
positioned, in the world, and sometimes she finds herself doubting that there is
much else going on.

"It was probably an illusion that you were ever in control in the first place."

"Cayce," Doreta says, "it's a career decision for me." She puts a particular
stress on "career" that might have once been heard more often on "religious".

And then she's watching him go out the door, past a girl with Mararishi
parachute pants embroidered with tigers who, seeing the expression, whatever it
is, on Cayce's face, smiles at her and winks.

21? year old cop playing with baton wrapping its strap around his forearm and
unspooling it

Cayce, having been raised to some extent within the ghostly but in her
experience remarkably banal membrane of the American intelligence community, has
her own set of likelihood-filters when it comes to these things.

She feels like crying, though for no particular reason. Just this invasive
weirdness that seems increasingly a part of her world, and she doesn't know why.

polyester blazer
spiders mating
