# Software Studies: A Lexicon

### Interface

Such condensations of power are of intense fascination and generate such
productivity, and, at the same time, are radically alien to most human
experiences of the world. It is this alienness that allows software,
particularly at moments when one is attempting to understand its workings or to
program it, that engenders the delicious moments of feedback between the styles
of perception and ordering, logic and calculation, between the user and the
computer to be so seductive and compelling. 

Within the paradigm of “user- friendliness,” that which is most easily
recognizable and visible, software has been traditionally understood to place
the user as its subject, and the computational patterns and elements initiated,
used, and manipulated by the user as the corresponding grammatical objects. As
software is diffused through urban, social, and institutional contexts, the
design of interfaces and even the basic level of awareness about what does or
does not constitute part of an interface, or that triggers a computational
event, becomes increasingly important. Learning to recognize a human functioning
as an interface to a spreadsheet

### Internationalization

The questions of “otherness” is rarely posed in relation to software. This is
because universality figures so large in software. Software makes historically
and materially specific claims to universality (think of Java’s “Write once, run
anywhere” promise). This tends to push questions of otherness in software aside.
By virtue of the notions of universality attached to numbering systems (such as
decimal and binary), to computation (Universal Turing Machine), and to global
technoculture itself, software seems virulently universal.
