American Psycho, Bret Easton Ellis

ABANDON ALL HOPE YE WHO ENTER HERE is scrawled in blood red lettering on the side of the Chemical Bank near the corner of Eleventh and First and is in print large enough to be seen from the backseat of the cab as it lurches forward in the traffic leaving Wall Street and just as Timoth Price notices the words a bus pulls up, the advertisement for Les Miserables on its side blocking his view, but Price who is with Pierce & Pierce and twenty-six doesn't seem to care because he tells the driver he will give him five dollars to turn up the radio, "Be My Baby", and the driver, black, not American, does so.

"I'm resourceful," Price is saying. "I'm creative, I'm young, unscrupulous, highly motivated, highly skilled. In essence what I'm saying is that society can*not* afford to lose me. I'm an asset." Price calms down, continues to stare out the cab's dirty window, probably at the word FEAR sprayed in red graffiti on the side of a McDonald's on Fourth and Seventh. "I mean the fact remains that no one gives a shit about their work, everybody hates their job, *I* hate my job. *You've* told me you hate yours. What do I do? Go back to Los Angeles? *Not* an alternative. I didn't transfer from UCLA to Stanford to put up with this. I mean am I *alone* in thinking we're not making enough money?" Like in a movie another bus appears, another poster for Les Miserables replaces the word -- not the same bus because someone has written the word DYKE over Eponine's face. Tim blurts out, "I have a co-op here. I have a place in the *Hamptons", for Christ sakes."

"Parents', guy. It's the parents'."

"I'm *buy*ing it from them. Will you fucking turn this up?" he snaps but distractedly at the driver, the Crystals still blaring from the radio.

"It don't go up no higher," maybe the driver says.

Timothy ignores him and irritably continues. "I could stay living in this city if they just installed Blaupunkts in the cabs. Maybe the ODM III or ORC II dynamic tuning systems?" His voice softens here. "Either one. Hip my friend, very hip."

He takes off the expensive-looking Walkman from around his nick, still complaining. "I hate to complain -- I really do -- about the trash, the garbage, the disease, about how filthy this city really is and you know and I know that it is a *sty*..." He continues talking as he opens his new Tumi calfskin attache case he bought at D.F. Sanders. He places the Walkman in the case alongside a Panasonic wallet-sized portable Easa-phone (he used to own the NEC 9000 Porta portable) and pulls out today's newspaper. "In one issue -- in *one* issue -- lets see here ... strangled models, babies thrown from tenement rooftops, kids killed in the subway, a Communist rally, Mafia boss wiped out, Nazis" -- he flips through the pages excitedly -- "baseball players with AIDS, more Mafia shit, gridlock, the homeless, various maniacs, faggots dropping like flies in the streets, surrogate mothers, the cancellation of a soap opera, kids who broke into a zoo and tortured and burned the various animals alive, more Nazis... and the joke is, the punch line is, it's all in this city -- nowhere else, just here, it sucks, whoa wait, more Nazis, gridlock, gridlock, baby-sellers, maniac baby, gridlock, bridge collapses--" His voice stops, he takes in a breath and then quietly says, his eyes fixed on a beggar at the corner of Second and Fifth, "That's the twenty-fourth one I've seen today. I've kept count." Then asks without looking over "What aren't you wearing the worsted navy blue blazer with the gray pants?" Prcie is wearing a six-button wool and silk suit by Ermenegildo Zegna, a cotton shirt with French cuffs by Ike Behar, a Ralph Lauren silk tie and leather wing tips by Fratelli Rossetti. Pan down to the *Post*.. There is a moderately interesting story concerning two people who disappeared at a party aboard the yacht of a semi-noted New York socialite while the boat was circling the island. A residue of spattered blood and three smashed champagne glasses are the only clues. Foul play is suspected and police think that perhaps a machete was the killer's weapon because of certain grooves and indentations found on the deck. No bodies have been found. There are no suspects. Price began his spiel today over lunch and then brought it up again during the squash game and continuedranting over drinks at Harry's where he had gone on, over three J&Bs and water, much more interestingly about the Fisher accout that Paul Owen was handling. Price will not shut up.

"Diseases!" he exclaims, his face tense with pain. "There's this theory out now that if you can catch the AIDS virus through having *sex* with someone who *is* infected then you can also catch anything, whether it's a virus per se or not -- Alzheimer's, muscular dystrophy, hemophilia, leukemia, anorexia, diabetes, cancer, multiple sclerosis, cystic fibrosis, cerebral palsy, dyslexia, for Christ sakes -- you can get dyslexia from pussy --"

"I'm not sure, guy, but I don't think dyslexia is a virus."

"Oh, who knows? *They* don't know that. Prove it."

Outside this cab, on the sidewalks, black and bloated pigeons fight over scraps of hot dogs in front of a Gray's Papaya while transvestites idly look on and a police car cruises silently the wrong way down a one-way street and the sky is low and gray and in a cab that's stopped in traffic across from this one, a guy who looks a lot like Luis Carruthers waves over at Timothy and when Timothy doesn't return the wave the guy -- slicked-back hair, suspenders, horn-rimmed glasses -- realizes it's not who he thought it was and looks back at his copy of USA Today. Panning down to the sidewalk there's an ugly old homeless bag lady holding a whip and she cracks it at the pigeons who ignore it as they continue to peck and fight hungrily over the remains of the hot dogs and the police car disapears into an underground parking lot.
