I'm interested in organizing my thoughts about this type of writing
(perblogging). What type of writing? A subset of autofiction? Longitudinal
autofiction?

Lido For Time + LIVEBLOG + The Neet Diary

These three texts were created by people in their twenties with very
single-minded interests and extreme lifestyles. While there's obviously many
differences in the diaries of someone training for the Olympics and someone
abusing substances and struggling to complete basic life tasks, the texts are
interesting because of the ability of their authors to communicate something
accurate and potentially useful. These texts are more like "primary sources"
than most works of autoficiton, and have different aims. Just like it doesn't
make sense to evaluate Lido for Time as a novel (it's best as a sort of
inspirational work-out guide), it doesn't make much sense to compare LIVEBLOG
with novels. It's more interesting to compare LIVEBLOG with other "perblogs", or
personal blogs. Tumblr, the platform where LIVEBLOG was originally posted, was
(is?) helped to form the contemporary perblogging culture...

one is liable to overlook other types of value

It isn't very interesting to me if LIVEBLOG is high-quality literature or not
because I am not a high quality person. For me, the book also has a sort of more
voyeuristic or gossip appeal: it's about people that I know, or might encounter
online or in person.


Some questionable stuff is recorded in this book:

- Publisher doing drugs with their authors.
- Megan and her mother doing verbal blackface and yellowface

the lack of coyness is more dispiriting than refreshing

when I felt concerned that Megan was driving while heavily impaired

Megan's relationship to the Navy is similar to the protagonist of "Dangling
Man". Wanting to escape the patterns of her life, but also probably not really
wanting to.

About a year ago, people started writing thinkpieces about the proliferation of
the confessional personal essay. Critics were concerned about how the "personal
essay industrial complex" exploits writers, pressureing them to turn trauma into
clickbait.

LIVEBLOG captures what it is like to do drugs every day, usually alone. To sleep
odd hours, to interact mostly with retail employees or codependent online
friends.

Why do I want to read this sort of thing?

A lot of stuff that's popular now is popular because it provides a comforting,
inpsiring template for meaning-generation, either through appreciation or
emulative creativity. It's the difference between the guy in the art gallery
looking at a postmodern work with contempt, and thinking "I could do that", and
someone reading Rupi Kaur and thinking "I could do this too!". Conflict about
how art should be valued is the main conflict shown between Megan and her ex
Zachary, the most present character besides her parents. Megan is essentially
defending her work from within the work.

How does a liveblog change when it's presented as a book?

(It is no longer a liveblog!)

How would have my experience of LIVEBLOG changed if I had read it as it was
being written? (In fact, I did read a few posts back in 2013.)

Do you enjoy reading notebooks? Do you enjoy writing them?

Need to comparse with "selected..." ... also ostensibly a BLOG

There are things in this book that you couldn't post on Twitter.

Some parts of LIVEBLOG are objectionable, or rather some parts of Megan are
objectionable, as a person. A few important sections are written in a sort of
verbal blackface. Some people may be annoyed that Megan's lifestyle is funded by
her parents. (Even though Megan's parents are probably teh strongest characters
in his ilfe

For readers who value psychological realism over all else, the literary form of
the published journals is distinctly seductive. It offers an obsessive reader a
cross section of consciousness moving through time, reflecting forwards and
backwards, dampened by the needs of the everyday. IThe Internet has made many of
these texts avaiable, some interesting because of the life or actions of the
person writing, others interesting because of how they're written. Of course
this type of writing doesn't originate from (tumblr)...

"If literature is realistic, then reality is fictionalized to make it suitable for literature."
- counterpoint

text wasteland

union of diary + blogging
literature
